6-0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Beth
Hello, I ask you something Beth
Beth
Hello Beth, are you listening?
Oh, sorry Neil, I was checking my Instagram and Facebook
And just sending this email
Don't, okay, what did you want?
Well, I wanted to ask if you're getting addicted to your smartphone
But clearly, the answer is yes
Actually, Neil, I am worried about my smartphone use
And it's not just me
Concerns are growing about the negative effect smartphones are having on adults
And even more on children
Studies show that girls who spend more time on social media
are more likely to be anxious or depressed
And smartphones have also been linked to delayed brain development and poor sleep
Even so, around 60% of British 8-11-year-olds have a smartphone
So, in this program, we'll be asking
Our kids better off without a phone
And of course, we'll be learning some useful new vocabulary too
But first, put your phone away, Beth
Because I have a question for you
The US has one of the highest levels of smartphone use
But, according to a recent survey, how long does the average American
11-14-year-old spend looking at a screen every day?
Is it a five hours, b seven hours or c nine hours?
Mmm, I'll guess American teens spend five hours a day on screens
Okay, Beth, I'll reveal the answer later in the program
BBC journalist, Miro Anubi has a nine-year-old daughter
who desperately wants her own phone
But Miro isn't convinced
As she explained to BBC World Service program, people fixing the world
I'm worried about how much time she'll spend on her own device
And what she might even see there
I mean, she's only nine at the end of the day
But, at the same time, I don't want her to feel left out
Because some of her friends already have smartphones
And these are trans-sets she'll miss out on play-dates
Or kids trans-cat videos or online chats with her besties
So I'm torn between wanting her to be in our world
And also letting her be in her own mini world with her friends
Miro is worried about her daughter
And says, at the end of the day, she's only nine
Miro uses the phrase at the end of the day
To mean after everything is considered
Miro's daughter wants to chat with her besties, her best friends
But Miro worries she'll get hooked on social media
See harmful content will spend too long online
Miro is torn between letting her daughter get a phone and not
If you're torn between two things, you can't decide between two possibilities
Leaving you feeling anxious
Parents like Miro are having to make an impossible choice
Either give their children potentially harmful devices
Or risk alienating them from their friends who do have smartphones
In February 2024, mum's Daisy Greenwell and Claire Furniho
Started a WhatsApp group encouraging parents
To not give their child a smartphone until the age of 14
With no social media access until 16
Soon the phone-free group of families grew into a movement
Smart phone-free childhood
Here mum, Daisy Greenwell, explains more to BBC World Services
People fixing the world
Everyone I spoke to said, yes, it's a nightmare getting a child of phone
But you've got no choice you have to
Because everyone else is doing it, you can't leave them on their own
So Claire and I decided to start a WhatsApp group
To support each other and I posted about it on social media
And it went viral
The group was full so we encouraged people to start one in your region
And your county and they sprung up all over the country
Right in front of our eyes, it was amazing
And now there's over 100,000 people in the UK who are in our community
At the start, Daisy says it was a nightmare, a very unpleasant situation
Everyone else's kids had a phone and Daisy didn't want her children to feel left out
But soon more families got involved and the group went viral
It spread quickly and widely on the internet and social media
Within months new groups started up across Britain right in front of Daisy's eyes
If you say something happens right in front of your eyes, you're emphasizing that something surprising
Or unusual happened directly before you
The smartphone free childhood campaign has grown rapidly in schools
And there are now groups in 18 countries around the world
Offering kids a circle of friends to play and chat with in the old fashioned way
So, what's the best way to face?
Okay, why don't you reveal the answer to your question, Neil?
Yes, I asked how long the average American teenager spends looking at a screen
And you guessed five hours a day
Which was the wrong answer I'm afraid Beth
It's actually even longer around nine hours a day spent on screens
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this program
Starting with the phrase at the end of the day
Meaning after all the relevant facts have been considered
Your bestie is slang for your best friend
Someone who's torn between two things finds it difficult to choose between them
Making them feel anxious
A nightmare is a very unpleasant experience or event
If a video or story goes viral, it spreads quickly on the internet through social media and email
And finally, if you say something happened right in front of your eyes
You are emphasizing that something surprising or unusual happened directly before you
Once again, our six minutes are up, goodbye for now
Bye